Add release notes for Infra Client 16.2 (#9997)
chef/chef: RELEASE_NOTES.md

This file holds "in progress" release notes for the current release under development and is intended for consumption by the Chef Documentation team. Please see <https://docs.chef.io/release_notes/> for the official Chef release notes.

# Chef Infra Client 16.2

## Breaking Change in Resources

## New Resources

### windows_audit_policy

The `windows_audit_policy` resource is used to configure system-level and per-user Windows advanced audit policy settings. See the [windows_audit_policy Documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/windows_audit_policy/) for complete usage information.

For example you can enable auditing of successful credential validation:

```ruby
windows_audit_policy "Set Audit Policy for 'Credential Validation' actions to 'Success'" do
  subcategory  'Credential Validation'
  success true
  failure false
  action :set
end
```

### homebrew_update

> The `homebrew_update` resource is used to update the available package cache for the Homebrew package system similar to the behavior of the `apt_update` resource. See the [homebrew_update Documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/homebrew_update/) for complete usage information. Thanks for adding this new resource [@damacus](http://github.com/damacus).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `homebrew_update` resource is used to update the available package cache for the Homebrew package system similar to the behavior of the `apt_update` resource. See the [homebrew_update Documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/homebrew_update/) for complete usage information. Thanks for adding this new resource, [@damacus](http://github.com/damacus).
```

## Resource Updates

### archive_file

> The `archive_file` resource has been updated with two important fixes. The resource will no longer fail with uninitialized constant errors under some scenarios. Additionally the behavior of the `mode` property has been improved to prevent incorrect file modes being applied to the decompressed files. Due to how file modes and Integer values are processed in Ruby this resource will now produce a deprecation warnings if Integer values are passed. Using String values lets us accurately pass values such as '644' or '0644' without ambiguity as to the user's intent. Thanks for reporting these issues [@sfiggins](http://github.com/sfiggins) and [@hammerhead](http://github.com/hammerhead).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `archive_file` resource has been updated with two important fixes. The resource will no longer fail with uninitialized constant errors under some scenarios. Additionally the behavior of the `mode` property has been improved to prevent incorrect file modes being applied to the decompressed files. Due to how file modes and Integer values are processed in Ruby this resource will now produce a deprecation warning if Integer values are passed. Using String values lets us accurately pass values such as '644' or '0644' without ambiguity as to the user's intent. Thanks for reporting these issues [@sfiggins](http://github.com/sfiggins) and [@hammerhead](http://github.com/hammerhead).
```

### chef_client_scheduled_task

The `chef_client_scheduled_task` resource has been updated to default the `frequency_modifier` property to `30` if the `frequency` property is set to `minutes` otherwise it still defaults to `1`. This provides a more predictable schedule behavior for users.

### cron_access

The `cron_access` resource has been updated to support Solaris and AIX systems. Thanks [@aklyachkin](http://github.com/aklyachkin).

### execute

The `execute` resource has a new `input` property which allows you to pass `stdin` input to the command being executed.

### powershell_package

The `powershell_package` resource has been updated to use TLS 1.2 when communicating with the PowerShell Gallery on Windows Server 2012-2016. Previously this resource used the system default cipher suite which did not include TLS 1.2. The PowerShell Gallery now requires TLS 1.2 for all communication, which caused failures on Windows Server 2012-2016.. Thanks for reporting this issues [@Xorima](http://github.com/Xorima).

### remote_file

> The `remote_file` resource has a new property `ssl_verify_mode` which allows you to control SSL validation at the property level. This can be used to verify certificates (Chef Infra Client's defaults) with `:verify_peer` or to skip verification in the case of a self signed certifcate `:verify_none`. Thanks [@jaymzh](http://github.com/jaymzh).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `remote_file` resource has a new property `ssl_verify_mode` which allows you to control SSL validation at the property level. This can be used to verify certificates (Chef Infra Client's defaults) with `:verify_peer` or to skip verification in the case of a self signed certifcate with `:verify_none`. Thanks [@jaymzh](http://github.com/jaymzh).
```

This file holds "in progress" release notes for the current release under development and is intended for consumption by the Chef Documentation team. Please see <https://docs.chef.io/release_notes/> for the official Chef release notes.

# What's New in 16.2

## Breaking Change in Resources

In Chef Infra Client 16.0 we made changes to how the custom resource names are applied in order to resolve some longstanding edge-cases. This change had several unintended side effects so we're further changing how custom names are set in this release of Chef Infra Client.

> Previously you could set a custom name for a resource via `resource_name` and under the hood this would also magically set the `provides` for the resource. Magic is great when it works, but is confusing when it doesn't. We've decided to remove some of this magic and instead rely on more explicit provides statements in resources. For cookbooks that support just Chef Infra Client 16 and later you change any `resource_name` calls to `provides` instead. If you need to support older releases of Chef Infra Client as well as 16+ you'll want to include both `resource_name` and `provides` for full compatibility.

Reviewer: This is missing a verb, not sure if this is correct though.

```suggestion
Previously you could set a custom name for a resource via `resource_name` and under the hood this would also magically set the `provides` for the resource. Magic is great when it works, but is confusing when it doesn't. We've decided to remove some of this magic and instead rely on more explicit provides statements in resources. For cookbooks that support just Chef Infra Client 16 and later you should change any `resource_name` calls to `provides` instead. If you need to support older releases of Chef Infra Client as well as 16+ you'll want to include both `resource_name` and `provides` for full compatibility.
```

> Previously you could set a custom name for a resource via `resource_name` and under the hood this would also magically set the `provides` for the resource. Magic is great when it works, but is confusing when it doesn't. We've decided to remove some of this magic and instead rely on more explicit provides statements in resources. For cookbooks that support just Chef Infra Client 16 and later you should change any `resource_name` calls to `provides` instead. If you need to support older releases of Chef Infra Client as well as 16+ you'll want to include both `resource_name` and `provides` for full compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously you could set a custom name for a resource via `resource_name` and under the hood this would also magically set the `provides` for the resource. Magic is great when it works, but is confusing when it doesn't. We've decided to remove some of this magic and instead rely on more explicit `provides` statements in resources. For cookbooks that support just Chef Infra Client 16 and later, you should change any `resource_name` calls to `provides` instead. If you need to support older releases of Chef Infra Client as well as 16+, you'll want to include both `resource_name` and `provides` for full compatibility.
```

**Pre-16 code:**

```ruby
resource_name :foo
```

**Chef Infra Client 16+ code**

```ruby
provides :foo
```

**Chef Infra Client < 16 backwards compatible code**

```ruby
resource_name :foo
provides :foo
```

We've introduced several Cookstyle rules to detect both custom resources and legacy HWRPs that need to be updated for this change:

**ChefDeprecations/ResourceUsesOnlyResourceName**: detects resources that only set resource_name and automatically adds a provides call as well.

**ChefDeprecations/ResourceWithoutNameOrProvides**: detects legacy HWRPs that don't include the necessary provides and resource_name calls for Chef Infra Client 16.

## New Resources

### windows_audit_policy

The `windows_audit_policy` resource is used to configure system-level and per-user Windows advanced audit policy settings. See the [windows_audit_policy Documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/windows_audit_policy/) for complete usage information.

> For example you can enable auditing of successful credential validation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can enable auditing of successful credential validation:
```

```ruby
windows_audit_policy "Set Audit Policy for 'Credential Validation' actions to 'Success'" do
  subcategory  'Credential Validation'
  success true
  failure false
  action :set
end
```

### homebrew_update

The `homebrew_update` resource is used to update the available package cache for the Homebrew package system similar to the behavior of the `apt_update` resource. See the [homebrew_update Documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/homebrew_update/) for complete usage information. Thanks for adding this new resource, [@damacus](http://github.com/damacus).

## Resource Updates

### archive_file

> The `archive_file` resource has been updated with two important fixes. The resource will no longer fail with uninitialized constant errors under some scenarios. Additionally the behavior of the `mode` property has been improved to prevent incorrect file modes being applied to the decompressed files. Due to how file modes and Integer values are processed in Ruby, this resource will now produce a deprecation warning if Integer values are passed. Using String values lets us accurately pass values such as '644' or '0644' without ambiguity as to the user's intent. Thanks for reporting these issues [@sfiggins](http://github.com/sfiggins) and [@hammerhead](http://github.com/hammerhead).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `archive_file` resource has been updated with two important fixes. The resource will no longer fail with uninitialized constant errors under some scenarios. Additionally, the behavior of the `mode` property has been improved to prevent incorrect file modes from being applied to the decompressed files. Due to how file modes and Integer values are processed in Ruby, this resource will now produce a deprecation warning if integer values are passed. Using string values lets us accurately pass values such as '644' or '0644' without ambiguity as to the user's intent. Thanks for reporting these issues [@sfiggins](http://github.com/sfiggins) and [@hammerhead](http://github.com/hammerhead).
```

### chef_client_scheduled_task

> The `chef_client_scheduled_task` resource has been updated to default the `frequency_modifier` property to `30` if the `frequency` property is set to `minutes` otherwise it still defaults to `1`. This provides a more predictable schedule behavior for users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `chef_client_scheduled_task` resource has been updated to default the `frequency_modifier` property to `30` if the `frequency` property is set to `minutes`, otherwise it still defaults to `1`. This provides a more predictable schedule behavior for users.
```

### cron / cron_d

> The `cron` and `cron_d` resources have been updated using the new Custom Resource Partials functionality introduced in Chef Infra Client 16. This has allowed us to standardize the properties used to declare cron job timing between the two resources. Timing properties all accept the same types / ranges and include the same validation, which makes moving from `cron` to `cron_d` seamless.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `cron` and `cron_d` resources have been updated using the new Custom Resource Partials functionality introduced in Chef Infra Client 16. This has allowed us to standardize the properties used to declare cron job timing between the two resources. The timing properties in both resources all accept the same types and ranges, and include the same validation, which makes moving from `cron` to `cron_d` seamless.
```

### cron_access

The `cron_access` resource has been updated to support Solaris and AIX systems. Thanks [@aklyachkin](http://github.com/aklyachkin).

### execute

The `execute` resource has a new `input` property which allows you to pass `stdin` input to the command being executed.

### powershell_package

> The `powershell_package` resource has been updated to use TLS 1.2 when communicating with the PowerShell Gallery on Windows Server 2012-2016. Previously this resource used the system default cipher suite which did not include TLS 1.2. The PowerShell Gallery now requires TLS 1.2 for all communication, which caused failures on Windows Server 2012-2016.. Thanks for reporting this issues [@Xorima](http://github.com/Xorima).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `powershell_package` resource has been updated to use TLS 1.2 when communicating with the PowerShell Gallery on Windows Server 2012-2016. Previously this resource used the system default cipher suite which did not include TLS 1.2. The PowerShell Gallery now requires TLS 1.2 for all communication, which caused failures on Windows Server 2012-2016. Thanks for reporting this issue [@Xorima](http://github.com/Xorima).
```

### remote_file

> The `remote_file` resource has a new property `ssl_verify_mode` which allows you to control SSL validation at the property level. This can be used to verify certificates (Chef Infra Client's defaults) with `:verify_peer` or to skip verification in the case of a self signed certificate with `:verify_none`. Thanks [@jaymzh](http://github.com/jaymzh).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `remote_file` resource has a new property `ssl_verify_mode` which allows you to control SSL validation at the property level. This can be used to verify certificates (Chef Infra Client's defaults) with `:verify_peer` or to skip verification in the case of a self-signed certificate with `:verify_none`. Thanks [@jaymzh](http://github.com/jaymzh).
```

### script

The various `script` resources such as `bash` or `ruby` now pass the provided script content to the interpreter using system pipes instead of writing to a temporary file and executing it. Executing script content using pipes is faster, more secure as potentially sensitive scripts aren't written to disk, and bypasses issues around user privileges.

### snap_package

> Multiple issues with the `snap_package` resource have been resolved including an infinite wait that occurred as well as issues specifying package version or channel. Thanks [@jaymzh](http://github.com/jaymzh).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multiple issues with the `snap_package` resource have been resolved, including an infinite wait that occurred, and issues with specifying the package version or channel. Thanks [@jaymzh](http://github.com/jaymzh).
```

### zypper_repository

The `zypper_repository` resource has been updated to work with the newer release of GPG in openSUSE 15 and SLES 15. This prevents failures when importing GPG keys in the resource.

## Knife bootstrap updates

- Knife bootstrap will now warn when bootstrapping a system using a validation key. Users should instead use `validatorless bootstrapping` with `knife bootstrap` which generates node and client keys using the client key of the user bootstrapping the node. This method is far more secure as an org-wide validation key does not not need to be distributed or rotated. Users can switch to `validatorless bootstrapping` by removing any `validation_key` entries in their `config.rb (knife.rb)` file.
- Resolved an error bootstrapping Linux nodes from Windows hosts
- Improved information messages during the bootstrap process

## Platform Packages

> - Debian 8 packages are no longer being produced as Debian 8 is now end of life.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Debian 8 packages are no longer being produced as Debian 8 is now end-of-life.
```

The `chef_client_scheduled_task` resource has been updated to default the `frequency_modifier` property to `30` if the `frequency` property is set to `minutes` otherwise it still defaults to `1`. This provides a more predictable schedule behavior for users.

### cron / cron_d

> The `cron` and `cron_d` resources have been updated using the new Custom Resource Partials functionality introduced in Chef Infra Client 16. This has allowed us to standardize the properties used to declare cron job timing between the two resources. Timing properties all accept the same types / ranges and include the same validation, which makes moving from `cron` to `cron_d` seemless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cron` and `cron_d` resources have been updated using the new Custom Resource Partials functionality introduced in Chef Infra Client 16. This has allowed us to standardize the properties used to declare cron job timing between the two resources. Timing properties all accept the same types / ranges and include the same validation, which makes moving from `cron` to `cron_d` seamless.
```
